README.md, before:

# Operator for IBM block storage CSI driver
The Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver for IBM block storage systems enables container orchestrators such as Kubernetes to manage the life cycle of persistent storage.

This is the official operator to deploy and manage IBM block storage CSI driver.

Supported container platforms:
  - OpenShift v4.2
  - OpenShift v4.3
  - Kubernetes v1.14
  - Kubernetes v1.16

Supported IBM storage systems:
  - IBM FlashSystem 9100
  - IBM Spectrum Virtualize Family (including IBM Flash family members built with IBM Spectrum Virtualize (FlashSystem 5010, 5030, 5100, 7200, 9100, 9200, 9200R) and IBM SAN Volume Controller (SVC) models SV2, SA2)
  - IBM FlashSystem A9000/R
  - IBM DS8880
  - IBM DS8900

Supported operating systems:
  - RHEL 7.x (x86 architecture)
  - RHCOS (x86 and IBM Z architecture)

Full documentation can be found on the [IBM Knowledge Center](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T).

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## Prerequisites
> **Note**: The operator can be installed directly from the RedHat OpenShift web console, through the OperatorHub. The prerequisites below also mentioned and can be viewed via OpenShift. 

### Preparing worker nodes
Perform these steps for each worker node in Kubernetes cluster:

#### 1. Perform this step to ensure iSCSI connectivity, when using RHEL OS.
If using RHCOS or if the packages are already installed, continue to the next step.

RHEL 7.x:
```bash
yum -y install iscsi-initiator-utils   # Only if iSCSI connectivity is required
yum -y install xfsprogs                # Only if XFS file system is required
```

#### 2. Configure Linux multipath devices on the host, using one of the following procedures.

##### 2.1 Configuring for OpenShift Container Platform users (RHEL and RHCOS)

The following yaml file example is for both Fibre Channel and iSCSI configurations. To support iSCSI, uncomment the last two lines in the file:


**Important:** The  `99-ibm-attach.yaml` configuration file overrides any files that already exist on your system. Only use this file if the files mentioned in the yaml below are not already created. If one or more have been created, edit this yaml file, as necessary.

Save the `99-ibm-attach.yaml` file.

```bash
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
labels:
machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
name: 99-ibm-attach
spec:
config:
ignition:
version: 2.2.0
storage:
files:
- path: /etc/multipath.conf
mode: 384
filesystem: root
contents:
source: data:,defaults%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20path_checker%20tur%0A%20%20%20%20path_selector
%20%22round-robin%200%22%0A%20%20%20%20rr_weight%20uniform%0A%20%20%20%20prio%20const%0A
%20%20%20%20rr_min_io_rq%201%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%0A%20%20%20%20polling_interval
%2030%0A%20%20%20%20path_grouping_policy%20multibus%0A%20%20%20%20find_multipaths%20yes%0A
%20%20%20%20no_path_retry%20fail%0A%20%20%20%20user_friendly_names%20yes%0A%20%20%20%20failback
%20immediate%0A%20%20%20%20checker_timeout%2010%0A%20%20%20%20fast_io_fail_tmo%20off%0A%7D%0A%0Adevices
%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20device%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_checker%20tur%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20product%20%22FlashSystem%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20vendor%20%22IBM%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_weight%20uniform%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_min_io_rq
%204%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_grouping_policy
%20multibus%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_selector%20%22round-robin%200%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20no_path_retry%20fail%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20failback%20immediate%0A
%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20device%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_checker%20tur%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20product%20%22FlashSystem-9840%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20vendor%20%22IBM%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20fast_io_fail_tmo%20off%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_weight%20uniform%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_min_io_rq%201000%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_grouping_policy%20multibus%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_selector
%20%22round-robin%200%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20no_path_retry%20fail%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20failback%20immediate%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20device%20%7B%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20vendor%20%22IBM%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20product%20%222145%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_checker%20tur%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20features%20%221%20queue_if_no_path
%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_grouping_policy%20group_by_prio%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_selector%20%22service-time%200%22%20%23%20Used%20by%20Red%20Hat%207.x%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20prio%20alua%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_min_io_rq%201%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_weight%20uniform%20%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20no_path_retry%20%225%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20dev_loss_tmo%20120%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20failback%20immediate%0A%20%20%20%7D
%0A%7D%0A
verification: {}
- path: /etc/udev/rules.d/99-ibm-2145.rules
mode: 420
filesystem: root
contents:
source: data:,%23%20Set%20SCSI%20command%20timeout%20to%20120s%20%28default%20%3D%3D
%2030%20or%2060%29%20for%20IBM%202145%20devices%0ASUBSYSTEM%3D%3D%22block%22%2C%20ACTION%3D%3D%22add
%22%2C%20ENV%7BID_VENDOR%7D%3D%3D%22IBM%22%2CENV%7BID_MODEL%7D%3D%3D%222145%22%2C%20RUN%2B%3D%22/bin/sh
%20-c%20%27echo%20120%20%3E/sys/block/%25k/device/timeout%27%22%0A
verification: {}
systemd:
units:
- name: multipathd.service
enabled: true
# Uncomment the following lines if this MachineConfig will be used with iSCSI connectivity
#- name: iscsid.service
#    enabled: true
```

Apply the yaml file.
```bash
oc apply -f 99-ibm-attach.yaml
```

RHEL users should verify that the `systemctl status multipathd` output indicates that the multipath status is active and error-free.

```bash
yum install device-mapper-multipath
modprobe dm-multipath
systemctl enable multipathd
systemctl start multipathd
systemctl status multipathd
multipath -ll
```

##### 2.2 Configuring for Kubernetes users (RHEL)
Create and set the relevant storage system parameters in the `/etc/multipath.conf` file. You can also use the default `multipath.conf` file, located in the `/usr/share/doc/device-mapper-multipath-*` directory.

Verify that the `systemctl status multipathd` output indicates that the multipath status is active and error-free.

```bash
yum install device-mapper-multipath
modprobe dm-multipath
systemctl enable multipathd
systemctl start multipathd
systemctl status multipathd
multipath -ll
```

#### 3. Configure storage system connectivity
3.1. Define the hostname of each Kubernetes node on the relevant storage systems with the valid WWPN(for Fibre Channel) or IQN(for iSCSI) of the node.

3.2. For Fibre Channel, configure the relevant zoning from the storage to the host.


<br/>
<br/>
<br/>


## Installation

### Install the operator


#### 1. Download the manifest from GitHub.

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-operator/master/deploy/installer/generated/ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml > ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml
```

#### 2. (Optional): If required, update the image fields in the ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml.


#### 3. Create a namespace.

```bash
$ kubectl create ns <namespace>
```

#### 4. Install the operator, while using a user-defined namespace.

```bash
$ kubectl -n <namespace> apply -f ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml
```

### Verify the operator is running:

```bash
$ kubectl get pod -l app.kubernetes.io/name=ibm-block-csi-operator -n <namespace>
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
ibm-block-csi-operator-5bb7996b86-xntss 2/2     Running   0          10m
```

### Create an IBMBlockCSI custom resource


#### 1. Download the manifest from GitHub.
```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-operator/master/deploy/crds/csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml > csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml
```

#### 2. (Optional): If required, update the image fields in the csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml.

#### 3. Install the csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml.

```bash
$ kubectl -n <namespace> apply -f csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml
```

### Verify the driver is running:

```bash
$ kubectl get all -n <namespace>  -l csi
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/ibm-block-csi-controller-0   4/4     Running   0          9m36s
pod/ibm-block-csi-node-jvmvh     3/3     Running   0          9m36s
pod/ibm-block-csi-node-tsppw     3/3     Running   0          9m36s

NAME                                DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR   AGE
daemonset.apps/ibm-block-csi-node   2         2         2       2            2           <none>          9m36s

NAME                                        READY   AGE
statefulset.apps/ibm-block-csi-controller   1/1     9m36s
```



<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## Configuring k8s secret and storage class 
In order to use the driver, create the relevant storage classes and secrets, as needed.

This section describes how to:
 1. Create a storage system secret - to define the storage system credentials (user and password) and its address.
 2. Configure the storage class - to define the storage system pool name, secret reference, `SpaceEfficiency`, and `fstype`.

#### 1. Create an array secret 
Create a secret file as follows `array-secret.yaml` and update the relevant credentials:

```
kind: Secret
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
  namespace: <NAMESPACE>
type: Opaque
stringData:
  management_address: <ADDRESS-1, ADDRESS-2> # Array management addresses
  username: <USERNAME>                   # Array username
data:
  password: <PASSWORD base64>            # Array password
```

Apply the secret:

```
$ kubectl apply -f array-secret.yaml
```

To create the secret using a command line terminal, use the following command:
```bash
kubectl create secret generic <NAME> --from-literal=username=<USER> --fromliteral=password=<PASSWORD> --from-literal=management_address=<ARRAY_MGMT> -n <namespace>
```

#### 2. Create storage classes

Create a storage class `storageclass-gold.yaml` file as follows, with the relevant capabilities, pool and, array secret.

Use the `SpaceEfficiency` parameters for each storage system. These values are not case sensitive:
* IBM FlashSystem A9000 and A9000R
	* Always includes deduplication and compression.
	No need to specify during configuration.
* IBM Spectrum Virtualize Family
	* `thin`
	* `compressed`
	* `deduplicated`
* IBM DS8000 Family
	* `standard` (default value, if not specified)
	* `thin`

```
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: gold
provisioner: block.csi.ibm.com
parameters:
  #SpaceEfficiency: <VALUE>    # Optional: Values applicable for Spectrum Virtualize Family are: thin, compressed, or deduplicated
  pool: <VALUE_POOL_NAME>	   # DS8000 Family paramater is VALUE_POOL_ID

  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: <VALUE_ARRAY_SECRET>
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: <VALUE_ARRAY_SECRET_NAMESPACE>
  csi.storage.k8s.io/controller-publish-secret-name: <VALUE_ARRAY_SECRET>
  csi.storage.k8s.io/controller-publish-secret-namespace: <VALUE_ARRAY_SECRET_NAMESPACE>

  csi.storage.k8s.io/fstype: xfs   # Optional: Values ext4/xfs. The default is ext4.
  volume_name_prefix: <prefix_name> # Optional: DS8000 Family maximum prefix length is 5 characters. Maximum prefix length for other systems is 20 characters.
```

#### 3. Apply the storage class:

```bash
$ kubectl apply -f storageclass-gold.yaml
storageclass.storage.k8s.io/gold created
```




<br/>
<br/>
<br/>


## Driver Usage
> **Note**: For further usage details, refer to https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver. 
>          In addition, full documentation can be found on the [IBM knowledge center](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T).

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## Upgrading

### 1. Upgrade the operator.
The steps is the same as new installation, you can upgrade the operator by downloading new manifest and run `kubectl apply` again.

### 2. Upgrade the IBMBlockCSI custom resource.
If you didn't change any default values in previous version, the IBMBlockCSI custom resource will be upgraded automatically. Otherwise, you can downloading the new manifest and run `kubectl apply` to upgrage it.

## Uninstalling

### 1. Delete the IBMBlockCSI custom resource.
```bash
$ kubectl delete -f csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml
```

### 2. Delete the operator.
```bash
$ kubectl delete -f ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml
```

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## Licensing

Copyright 2020 IBM Corp.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

remove upgrade
Signed-off-by: 27149chen <alex1988@outlook.com>

README.md, after:

# Operator for IBM block storage CSI driver
The Container Storage Interface (CSI) Driver for IBM block storage systems enables container orchestrators such as Kubernetes to manage the life cycle of persistent storage.

This is the official operator to deploy and manage IBM block storage CSI driver.

Supported container platforms:
  - OpenShift v4.2
  - OpenShift v4.3
  - Kubernetes v1.14
  - Kubernetes v1.16

Supported IBM storage systems:
  - IBM FlashSystem 9100
  - IBM Spectrum Virtualize Family (including IBM Flash family members built with IBM Spectrum Virtualize (FlashSystem 5010, 5030, 5100, 7200, 9100, 9200, 9200R) and IBM SAN Volume Controller (SVC) models SV2, SA2)
  - IBM FlashSystem A9000/R
  - IBM DS8880
  - IBM DS8900

Supported operating systems:
  - RHEL 7.x (x86 architecture)
  - RHCOS (x86 and IBM Z architecture)

Full documentation can be found on the [IBM Knowledge Center](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T).

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## Prerequisites
> **Note**: The operator can be installed directly from the RedHat OpenShift web console, through the OperatorHub. The prerequisites below also mentioned and can be viewed via OpenShift. 

### Preparing worker nodes
Perform these steps for each worker node in Kubernetes cluster:

#### 1. Perform this step to ensure iSCSI connectivity, when using RHEL OS.
If using RHCOS or if the packages are already installed, continue to the next step.

RHEL 7.x:
```bash
yum -y install iscsi-initiator-utils   # Only if iSCSI connectivity is required
yum -y install xfsprogs                # Only if XFS file system is required
```

#### 2. Configure Linux multipath devices on the host, using one of the following procedures.

##### 2.1 Configuring for OpenShift Container Platform users (RHEL and RHCOS)

The following yaml file example is for both Fibre Channel and iSCSI configurations. To support iSCSI, uncomment the last two lines in the file:


**Important:** The  `99-ibm-attach.yaml` configuration file overrides any files that already exist on your system. Only use this file if the files mentioned in the yaml below are not already created. If one or more have been created, edit this yaml file, as necessary.

Save the `99-ibm-attach.yaml` file.

```bash
apiVersion: machineconfiguration.openshift.io/v1
kind: MachineConfig
metadata:
labels:
machineconfiguration.openshift.io/role: worker
name: 99-ibm-attach
spec:
config:
ignition:
version: 2.2.0
storage:
files:
- path: /etc/multipath.conf
mode: 384
filesystem: root
contents:
source: data:,defaults%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20path_checker%20tur%0A%20%20%20%20path_selector
%20%22round-robin%200%22%0A%20%20%20%20rr_weight%20uniform%0A%20%20%20%20prio%20const%0A
%20%20%20%20rr_min_io_rq%201%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%0A%20%20%20%20polling_interval
%2030%0A%20%20%20%20path_grouping_policy%20multibus%0A%20%20%20%20find_multipaths%20yes%0A
%20%20%20%20no_path_retry%20fail%0A%20%20%20%20user_friendly_names%20yes%0A%20%20%20%20failback
%20immediate%0A%20%20%20%20checker_timeout%2010%0A%20%20%20%20fast_io_fail_tmo%20off%0A%7D%0A%0Adevices
%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20device%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_checker%20tur%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20product%20%22FlashSystem%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20vendor%20%22IBM%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_weight%20uniform%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_min_io_rq
%204%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_grouping_policy
%20multibus%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_selector%20%22round-robin%200%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20no_path_retry%20fail%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20failback%20immediate%0A
%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20device%20%7B%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_checker%20tur%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20product%20%22FlashSystem-9840%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20vendor%20%22IBM%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20fast_io_fail_tmo%20off%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_weight%20uniform%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_min_io_rq%201000%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_grouping_policy%20multibus%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_selector
%20%22round-robin%200%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20no_path_retry%20fail%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20failback%20immediate%0A%20%20%20%20%7D%0A%20%20%20%20device%20%7B%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20vendor%20%22IBM%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20product%20%222145%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_checker%20tur%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20features%20%221%20queue_if_no_path
%22%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_grouping_policy%20group_by_prio%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20path_selector%20%22service-time%200%22%20%23%20Used%20by%20Red%20Hat%207.x%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20prio%20alua%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_min_io_rq%201%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20rr_weight%20uniform%20%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20no_path_retry%20%225%22%0A
%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20dev_loss_tmo%20120%0A%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20failback%20immediate%0A%20%20%20%7D
%0A%7D%0A
verification: {}
- path: /etc/udev/rules.d/99-ibm-2145.rules
mode: 420
filesystem: root
contents:
source: data:,%23%20Set%20SCSI%20command%20timeout%20to%20120s%20%28default%20%3D%3D
%2030%20or%2060%29%20for%20IBM%202145%20devices%0ASUBSYSTEM%3D%3D%22block%22%2C%20ACTION%3D%3D%22add
%22%2C%20ENV%7BID_VENDOR%7D%3D%3D%22IBM%22%2CENV%7BID_MODEL%7D%3D%3D%222145%22%2C%20RUN%2B%3D%22/bin/sh
%20-c%20%27echo%20120%20%3E/sys/block/%25k/device/timeout%27%22%0A
verification: {}
systemd:
units:
- name: multipathd.service
enabled: true
# Uncomment the following lines if this MachineConfig will be used with iSCSI connectivity
#- name: iscsid.service
#    enabled: true
```

Apply the yaml file.
```bash
oc apply -f 99-ibm-attach.yaml
```

RHEL users should verify that the `systemctl status multipathd` output indicates that the multipath status is active and error-free.

```bash
yum install device-mapper-multipath
modprobe dm-multipath
systemctl enable multipathd
systemctl start multipathd
systemctl status multipathd
multipath -ll
```

##### 2.2 Configuring for Kubernetes users (RHEL)
Create and set the relevant storage system parameters in the `/etc/multipath.conf` file. You can also use the default `multipath.conf` file, located in the `/usr/share/doc/device-mapper-multipath-*` directory.

Verify that the `systemctl status multipathd` output indicates that the multipath status is active and error-free.

```bash
yum install device-mapper-multipath
modprobe dm-multipath
systemctl enable multipathd
systemctl start multipathd
systemctl status multipathd
multipath -ll
```

#### 3. Configure storage system connectivity
3.1. Define the hostname of each Kubernetes node on the relevant storage systems with the valid WWPN(for Fibre Channel) or IQN(for iSCSI) of the node.

3.2. For Fibre Channel, configure the relevant zoning from the storage to the host.


<br/>
<br/>
<br/>


## Installation

### Install the operator


#### 1. Download the manifest from GitHub.

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-operator/master/deploy/installer/generated/ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml > ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml
```

#### 2. (Optional): If required, update the image fields in the ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml.


#### 3. Create a namespace.

```bash
$ kubectl create ns <namespace>
```

#### 4. Install the operator, while using a user-defined namespace.

```bash
$ kubectl -n <namespace> apply -f ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml
```

### Verify the operator is running:

```bash
$ kubectl get pod -l app.kubernetes.io/name=ibm-block-csi-operator -n <namespace>
NAME                                    READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
ibm-block-csi-operator-5bb7996b86-xntss 2/2     Running   0          10m
```

### Create an IBMBlockCSI custom resource


#### 1. Download the manifest from GitHub.
```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-operator/master/deploy/crds/csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml > csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml
```

#### 2. (Optional): If required, update the image fields in the csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml.

#### 3. Install the csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml.

```bash
$ kubectl -n <namespace> apply -f csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml
```

### Verify the driver is running:

```bash
$ kubectl get all -n <namespace>  -l csi
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
pod/ibm-block-csi-controller-0   4/4     Running   0          9m36s
pod/ibm-block-csi-node-jvmvh     3/3     Running   0          9m36s
pod/ibm-block-csi-node-tsppw     3/3     Running   0          9m36s

NAME                                DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   NODE SELECTOR   AGE
daemonset.apps/ibm-block-csi-node   2         2         2       2            2           <none>          9m36s

NAME                                        READY   AGE
statefulset.apps/ibm-block-csi-controller   1/1     9m36s
```



<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## Configuring k8s secret and storage class 
In order to use the driver, create the relevant storage classes and secrets, as needed.

This section describes how to:
 1. Create a storage system secret - to define the storage system credentials (user and password) and its address.
 2. Configure the storage class - to define the storage system pool name, secret reference, `SpaceEfficiency`, and `fstype`.

#### 1. Create an array secret 
Create a secret file as follows `array-secret.yaml` and update the relevant credentials:

```
kind: Secret
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: <NAME>
  namespace: <NAMESPACE>
type: Opaque
stringData:
  management_address: <ADDRESS-1, ADDRESS-2> # Array management addresses
  username: <USERNAME>                   # Array username
data:
  password: <PASSWORD base64>            # Array password
```

Apply the secret:

```
$ kubectl apply -f array-secret.yaml
```

To create the secret using a command line terminal, use the following command:
```bash
kubectl create secret generic <NAME> --from-literal=username=<USER> --fromliteral=password=<PASSWORD> --from-literal=management_address=<ARRAY_MGMT> -n <namespace>
```

#### 2. Create storage classes

Create a storage class `storageclass-gold.yaml` file as follows, with the relevant capabilities, pool and, array secret.

Use the `SpaceEfficiency` parameters for each storage system. These values are not case sensitive:
* IBM FlashSystem A9000 and A9000R
	* Always includes deduplication and compression.
	No need to specify during configuration.
* IBM Spectrum Virtualize Family
	* `thin`
	* `compressed`
	* `deduplicated`
* IBM DS8000 Family
	* `standard` (default value, if not specified)
	* `thin`

```
kind: StorageClass
apiVersion: storage.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: gold
provisioner: block.csi.ibm.com
parameters:
  #SpaceEfficiency: <VALUE>    # Optional: Values applicable for Spectrum Virtualize Family are: thin, compressed, or deduplicated
  pool: <VALUE_POOL_NAME>	   # DS8000 Family paramater is VALUE_POOL_ID

  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-name: <VALUE_ARRAY_SECRET>
  csi.storage.k8s.io/provisioner-secret-namespace: <VALUE_ARRAY_SECRET_NAMESPACE>
  csi.storage.k8s.io/controller-publish-secret-name: <VALUE_ARRAY_SECRET>
  csi.storage.k8s.io/controller-publish-secret-namespace: <VALUE_ARRAY_SECRET_NAMESPACE>

  csi.storage.k8s.io/fstype: xfs   # Optional: Values ext4/xfs. The default is ext4.
  volume_name_prefix: <prefix_name> # Optional: DS8000 Family maximum prefix length is 5 characters. Maximum prefix length for other systems is 20 characters.
```

#### 3. Apply the storage class:

```bash
$ kubectl apply -f storageclass-gold.yaml
storageclass.storage.k8s.io/gold created
```




<br/>
<br/>
<br/>


## Driver Usage
> **Note**: For further usage details, refer to https://github.com/IBM/ibm-block-csi-driver. 
>          In addition, full documentation can be found on the [IBM knowledge center](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSRQ8T).

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## Upgrading

We do not support upgrading, you should uninstall it and install it again.

## Uninstalling

### 1. Delete the IBMBlockCSI custom resource.
```bash
$ kubectl delete -f csi.ibm.com_v1_ibmblockcsi_cr.yaml
```

### 2. Delete the operator.
```bash
$ kubectl delete -f ibm-block-csi-operator.yaml
```

<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

## Licensing

Copyright 2020 IBM Corp.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
